MATTHEW MAZZANTI Software Engineer 19305 Tattershall Drive, Germantown, MD
20874, E-mail: matthew.mazzanti@gmail.com Phone: 240.855.6586 LinkedIn:
https://www.linkedin.com/in/matthew-mazzanti-b4679211a/

EXPERIENCE

SOFTWARE ENGINEER

 - WELGO


2020-02 - now Helped to bring a faltering product to market, rebuilding and
refining critical systems such as devops, frontend, and backend while under
tight timelines. I brought the scattered pieces into a single monorepo, created
a cutting edge build and deployment system, and worked tirelessly to iterate
and improve upon the system. Over the course of two months, the product went
from a proof of concept to a real deployed system, used every day by physicians
in Maryland. Hightlights include:

AWS containerized services - Shifted from an unrefined, ad-hoc EC2 deployment
system to a stable and highly available container based system hosted in
ECS.Devops/Continuous integration - Completely retooled the build system to
facilitate auto triggered reproducable builds and deployments using AWS
CodeBuild and CodeDeploy.UI/UX design - Built and maintained multiple websites
with both Angular and React frontends, rebuilding and rearchitecting the
systems so that they became more reliable, faster, and easier to use.Tight
timelines - As an early-stage startup, all of the work was done under
incredibly tight timelines, with little tolerance for downtime. A major focus
of the design and deployment was ensuring that everything was done in a way to
maximize output and results, while being quick to bugfix and redeploy if
problems arose. Reverse engineering - Left with little documentation, I had to
reverse engineer thousands of lines of code in order to improve and extend
services.


SOFTWARE ENGINEER

 - AT&AMP;T CHIEF SECURITY OFFICE


2019-06 - 2020-02 Focused on command-line data manipulation tools, I brought my
knowledge of compter science and UX design to make manipulating data easy and
simple for security researchers at AT&amp;T. Within my team, I was a valuable
source of advice and guidance on all things technical, where I was often turned
to for advice on architecture, technologies, or just general programming help.
Highlights include:



Linux sysadmin - Built out and self-hosted the needed development
infrastructure, such as hosted git repositories, continous integration, and
sandboxed development environments.Devops/Continuous integration - From day 1,
I pushed for continuous integration and testing within the team, dramatically
increasing developer productivity and code correctness.Software architecture -
I was often seeked out to help in designing and architecturing systems - even
those I was not directly working on. I helped elevate many of the developers
within the team, spending many hours working closely with team members to
facilitate deep understanding of the systems we were working with.Developer
advocate - In addition to helping developers I also played a customer facing
role where I demoed and explained the technologies we were building, provided
direction and suggestions to our researchers on what features were possible and
the timelines different approaches would take, and played a key role in
creating implementation plans we followed for bringing our products to
life.Data analytics - A primary focus of our work was on data analytics, where
I used my past experience with Python, and new experience with GoLang, to
create fast and easy to use tools for processing big data.




SOFTWARE ENGINEER - TRUSHIELD INC, ASHBURN VA


2018-06 - 2018-12 Worked to re-architect and re-implement an email phishing
learning and analysis tool called &#34;Phishield&#34; to improve it in nearly
every measurable aspect. Highlights include:

    Reverse engineering  - Inherited code from previous team and had to learn
    it without training and documentation. Architecture design - Redesigned the
    architecture so that it was more flexible and understandable. Brought the
    project size down from over 5000 lines to under 2000. Optimization - Used
    Numpy to improve times on data de-duplication for csv files from over 10+
    minutes to less than 15 seconds. Shifted from MySql to Postgres to allow
    for in-place &#34;upserts&#34; to allow new data to be added or old data to
        be changed without having to make a full loop from SQL to Python and
        back.UI/UX design -  Worked with users to redesign workflows to reduce
        complexity.  Used templates and per-page analysis to decrease page
        loading/rendering times for a smoother user experience.  Improved
        overall look and feel of the site.Data analysis and visualization -
        Reworked the data visualization workflow to rely more upon back-end
        rendering, allowing visualizations to be faster and cached for better
        performance. Reworked visualizations for clarity.Quality assurance -
        Wrote scripts to separate testing data from real data in the server.AWS
        server management - Managed migration between RHEL 6 instance to new
        Amazon Linux instance.  Did cost-benefit analysis of using outside
        services vs boot-strapping them on the EC2 instances. 


SOFTWARE ENGINEER INTERN - FANNIE MAE, RESTON VA


2017-06 - 2017-08 Wrote an internal application to allow for the searching and
analysis of mortgage database records for Fannie Mae&#39;s external user
integration department. Highlights include:  

UI/UX design - Researched use cases and developed UI to facilitate the most
common ones, without sacrificing the flexibility needed for less-common ones. 
Wrote custom Angular/Bootstrap routines, specifically custom datavisualization
and date/range picking, to keep style consistent across application while
extending functionality.Optimization - Database calls done with with paging and
front-end caching so that database use was minimized and load times were
reduced. Server side - Restful JSON API in Java Server Pages.Continuous
integration - Built CI pipeline with Jenkins.


IT DIRECTOR

 - WMUC RADIO, COLLEGE PARK


2017-12 - 2018-06 Lead back- and front-end rebuild of majority of station
infrastructure, improving security and efficiency. Highlights include: 

    Stack upgrades - Worked with university IT to develop a plan to migrate
    aging LAMP stack infrastructure and add security components (VPN access and
    SSL) with minimal downtime for users.Team management - Started a small team
    of developers to meet and collectively work on site components. The group
    also focused on instruction of real-world tech like Git, React, and
    Linux.Container integration - Servers set up with reusable Docker
    containers so that testing and deployment of needed services was as
    painless as possible.



EDUCATION UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND, COLLEGE PARK


2015-08 - 2019-05 B.S. Computer Science

Study concentration:

Software developmentComputer networkingData analysisMachine learningDatabase
design



SKILLS Python, 

Angular/React, JavaScript

, Linux/SysAdmin

, GoLang

, HTML/CSS, AWS

, Haskell

, C/C++

, SQL/Database

, TCP/Networking, Java



 I’m looking for an position that will allow me to work on a team of talented
 people that I can learn from, continue to expand my knowledge with, and take
 the things I’ve learned in school, previous work, and on my own and apply it
 to solve new and interesting real world problems.   I love solving challenging
 problems, figuring out how things work, and understanding technology. Serious
 Linux nerd and Python devotee. Things I&#39;m passionate about: full stack
 development, UI/UX design, cloud based/scalable architecture design, data
 science, and machine learning.   

REFERENCES


AVAILABLE UPON REQUEST


